Big-Data/apache_spark.md, before:

<table style="border-style: none;">
    <tr >
        <td>
            <img src="../resources/apache_spark_logo.png" style="height: 60px">
        </td>
        <td>
            <span style="font-weight: 500; font-size: 2em;">Apache Spark</span>
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

# Setup

## Specify a Python interpreter

The default interpreter is Python 2.7.x. Edit file `$SPARK_HOME/conf/spark-env.sh` (create it from the template if necessary) and set the environment variable `PYSPARK_PYTHON`.

<i style="color:#909090;">In file conf/spark-env.sh:</i>
```bash
export PYSPARK_PYTHON=python3
```
Now `pyspark` and `spark-submit` use `python3` interpreter. However directly running a script whith `import pypspark` with the python interpreter instead of using spark-submit will fail. It also requires to export `PYSPARK_PYTHON` in `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile`.

<i style="color:#909090;">In file .bashrc or .bash_profile:</i>
```bash
export PYSPARK_PYTHON=python3
```


## Running pyspark with ipython

For Spark version >= 2.0 set `PYSPARK_DRIVER_PYTHON`:
```
$ PYSPARK_DRIVER_PYTHON=ipython pyspark
```
This setting can be made permanent by editing file `$SPARK_HOME/conf/spark-env.sh`:
```bash
export PYSPARK_DRIVER_PYTHON=ipython pyspark
```

## Configure PyCharm for PySpark

In *PyCharm*'s menu go to **File>Settings>Project>Project Structure** and push button **Add Content Root**.

![Add spark's python path as content root](../resources/pycharm_pyspark.png)

This may require to install packages `py4j` and `pypandoc`
```
$ python3 -m pip install py4j pypandoc
```

When using *python3*, *PyCharm* must be started from the terminal and the environment variable `PYSPARK_PYTHON` must be set in the environment of this terminal.

# APIs

## Spark python API

The Spark's python API reference is available at [https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/index.html](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/index.html).


# Troubleshooting

## Warnings at runtime

### WARN NativeCodeLoader: Unable to load native-hadoop library for your platform... using builtin-java classes where applicable

**Solution**

Of course *Hadoop* must be installed. Set environment variable `HADOOP_HOME` to the root of the *Hadoop* install path. Add *Hadoop* libraries' path to the environment variable `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`.

<i style="color:#909090;">In file .bashrc or .bash_profile:</i>

```bash
export HADOOP_HOME=$APPS/hadoop-3.2.0
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$HADOOP_HOME/lib/native
```

## Fatal errors

### java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java heap space

For instance when running pyspark, the following exception is raised:
```
py4j.protocol.Py4JJavaError: An error occurred while calling z:org.apache.spark.api.python.PythonRDD.readRDDFromFile.
: java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java heap space
```
The JVM lacked of memory. The heap size of the JVM can be extended with option `-Xmx<memory size>` of command `java`. However, this can be fixed with Spark the option `spark.driver.memory` which defaults to `'1g'`. Spark options can be set with accessors of the `SparkConf` instance.

*PySpark example*
```python
conf = SparkConf().setMaster('local[12]').setAppName('My Spark App')
conf.set('spark.driver.memory', '2g')
```

Commit message:

[new] MySQL, Node.js, webpack [UPDATE] Apache Spark, npm

Big-Data/apache_spark.md, after:

<table style="border-style: none;">
    <tr >
        <td>
            <img src="../resources/apache_spark_logo.png" style="height: 60px">
        </td>
        <td>
            <span style="font-weight: 500; font-size: 2em;">Apache Spark</span>
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

# Setup

## Specify a Python interpreter

The default interpreter is Python 2.7.x. Edit file `$SPARK_HOME/conf/spark-env.sh` (create it from the template if necessary) and set the environment variable `PYSPARK_PYTHON`.

<i style="color:#909090;">In file conf/spark-env.sh:</i>
```bash
export PYSPARK_PYTHON=python3
```
Now `pyspark` and `spark-submit` use `python3` interpreter. However directly running a script whith `import pypspark` with the python interpreter instead of using spark-submit will fail. It also requires to export `PYSPARK_PYTHON` in `.bashrc` or `.bash_profile`.

<i style="color:#909090;">In file .bashrc or .bash_profile:</i>
```bash
export PYSPARK_PYTHON=python3
```


## Running pyspark with ipython

For Spark version >= 2.0 set `PYSPARK_DRIVER_PYTHON`:
```
$ PYSPARK_DRIVER_PYTHON=ipython pyspark
```
This setting can be made permanent by editing file `$SPARK_HOME/conf/spark-env.sh`:
```bash
export PYSPARK_DRIVER_PYTHON=ipython pyspark
```

## Configure PyCharm for PySpark

In *PyCharm*'s menu go to **File>Settings>Project>Project Structure** and push button **Add Content Root**.

![Add spark's python path as content root](../resources/pycharm_pyspark.png)

This may require to install packages `py4j` and `pypandoc`
```
$ python3 -m pip install py4j pypandoc
```

When using *python3*, *PyCharm* must be started from the terminal and the environment variable `PYSPARK_PYTHON` must be set in the environment of this terminal.

# APIs

## Spark python API

The Spark's python API reference is available at [https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/index.html](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/api/python/index.html).

## Spark Create RDD from Seq or List (using Parallelize)

RDD’s are generally created by parallelized collection i.e. by taking an existing collection from driver program (scala, python e.t.c) and passing it to SparkContext’s parallelize() method. <b style="color:red">This method is used only for testing</b> but not in realtime as the entire data will be reside on one node which is not ideal for production.

```scala
val rdd=spark.sparkContext.parallelize(Seq(("Java", 20000), ("Python", 100000), ("Scala", 3000)))
rdd.foreach(println)
```
Outputs:
```
(Python,100000)
(Scala,3000)
(Java,20000)
```

# Troubleshooting

## Warnings at runtime

### WARN NativeCodeLoader: Unable to load native-hadoop library for your platform... using builtin-java classes where applicable

**Solution**

Of course *Hadoop* must be installed. Set environment variable `HADOOP_HOME` to the root of the *Hadoop* install path. Add *Hadoop* libraries' path to the environment variable `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`.

<i style="color:#909090;">In file .bashrc or .bash_profile:</i>

```bash
export HADOOP_HOME=$APPS/hadoop-3.2.0
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$HADOOP_HOME/lib/native
```

## Fatal errors

### java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java heap space

For instance when running pyspark, the following exception is raised:
```
py4j.protocol.Py4JJavaError: An error occurred while calling z:org.apache.spark.api.python.PythonRDD.readRDDFromFile.
: java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Java heap space
```
The JVM lacked of memory. The heap size of the JVM can be extended with option `-Xmx<memory size>` of command `java`. However, this can be fixed with Spark the option `spark.driver.memory` which defaults to `'1g'`. Spark options can be set with accessors of the `SparkConf` instance.

*PySpark example*
```python
conf = SparkConf().setMaster('local[12]').setAppName('My Spark App')
conf.set('spark.driver.memory', '2g')
```
